## Analysis reproducibility of paper (Wang et al., 2024, ###) "Heterogeneous enhancer states orchestrate Beta cell responses to metabolic stress"

Obesity-induced  cell dysfunction is a pivotal factor contributing to the onset of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). Metabolic stress induces complex dynamics in both enhancer and gene expression within islet endocrine cells. Nevertheless, elucidating the specific gene regulatory network and the accompanying epigenetic mechanisms underlying islet dysfunction remains an intricate challenge. Here we utilize Paired-Tag, a combinatorial index-based multi-omic platform, to simultaneously profile single-nuclei RNA along with H3K4me1 or H3K27ac, two distinct histone modifications defining enhancer states, in both islets of lean and obese mice. Our study reveals gene expression, distinct enhancer states, RNA-enhancer links, and intra-islet paracrine communications that correlate with excessive ER stress and diminished insulin secretion function at the single-cell level. Intriguingly, while many metabolic stress-induced genes exhibit concordant changes in both H3K4me1 and H3K27ac at their enhancers, certain expression changes are solely attributable to either H3K4me1 or H3K27ac dynamics. Motif analysis and functional experiments reveal that these discordant regulatory networks are mediated by distinct sets of transcription factors that are preferentially associated with either H3K4me1 or H3K27ac at enhancers. Remarkably, our analysis identifies a category of H3K4me1+H3K27ac- primed enhancers prevalent in lean  cells but largely absent after metabolic stress. A substantial subset of these enhancers are occupied by FoxA2 and are implicated in metabolic stress-induced  cell dysfunction. Lastly, we uncover multiple dysregulated cell-cell communication pathways associated with excessive ER stress in dysfunctional  cells. We find that nerve growth factor (NGF) is selectively activated in distinct cell populations to repress ER stress through TrkA(Tropomyosin receptor kinase A) receptor in  cells. Administration of NGF partially rescues  cell dysfunction in vitro and in vivo. In summary, our findings offer critical insights into gene- and TF-specific enhancer utilization, which defines the heterogeneous responses to metabolic challenges in individual  cells. 


## Data availability
Raw data are availble [GSE241639](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/####)

## Citation
Please check out the paper [Heterogeneous enhancer states orchestrate Beta cell responses to metabolic stress](https://######)
